# hist3000_week8

## Module 2 Consolidation

The second module of the class provided some new difficulties for me, no lesser than the difficulties I presented myself. I 'fell of the wagon' a bit as it where, in terms of school work, and was pressed for time more than I wished. I suppose this would represent my first 'failure' of the module, and certainly one that I plan to learn from, and adapt further coursework in a way to allow more comprehensive learning. That being said, it would be a poor learning experience if that had been the only thing I learned from - as falling behind on schoolwork is not a new nor isolated issue. The comprehension built in module one, however, was a great springboard for jumping more headlong into the usage of more complex digital tools we used, as well as the slightly more complex topics of data reuse and work. Besides that, I did acheive a number of wins as well, that I will delve into with more detail for the purpose of this consolidation document. I want to pay short lipservice to my failure to submit weekly reports, as the inability to recieve feedback was certainly a detriment, and in that regard specifically I plan to improve my weekly work.

## Data Recording (What's Counted Counts)

When modifying the scheme of our KoBoToolbox forms, I found myself making certain decisions from what I considered a slightly wrong mindset. From Catherine D’Ignazio and Lauren Klein's *What Gets Counted, Counts*, I paid close attention to the follwoing line in my decisions making: "What is counted—like being a man or a woman—often becomes the basis for policymaking and resource allocation. By contrast, what is not counted—like being nonbinary—becomes invisible". From this, I made the assumption that more information collected would inherrently mean that a more complex understanding of what was being studied (In our case, the graveyard monuments). As such, when I moved into modifying the KoBo scheme, I added many text-based questions in which more detailed observations could be recorded. I found this incomatible with the usage of our data in RStudio, which I will discuss later. 

I think that my attitude was well-founded, but in the following week, the William White and Catherine Draycott article *Why the Whiteness of Archaeology Is a Problem*, I began to realize that recording even more information was redundant in regard to the fact that I, as a white archaeology student, am limited by my social mentality in what I would ever record. I could write 3 paragraphs about a single monument, trying to explain every important facet, and still completely miss aspects that would be of major significance to other social groups. In the context of the graveyard project, this was less of an issue, as I was looking at a burial plot that was largely made up of European Christians. However, if I was to choose the adjacent Jewish Memorial Gardens, I would have undoubtadly missed or misrepresented some information. This reasonated with the passaged from the ODATE chapter 4, "We are bound to be misunderstood at some point, because readers may not share the same concepts and certainly not all connotations that we may have wanted to convey. A significant part of the model in our minds would be writen between the lines or not at all." To my undertanding, that I was trying to form a perfect model by gathering *more* information, not more *significant data*.

## Collaberative Working and Learning (Part 2 Electric Boogaloo)

Our introdction to R and RStudios in the module's first week was an extremely intimidating time for me. I've always had a generalized fear of coding and programming lanuages, regardless of how I consider myself fairly tech-savvy. However, after delving into R, and overcoming my general illiteracy in the language, I actually found myself having... fun, dare I say it? Being able to access and work with data that I helped to collect was a phenomenal feeling, and it was done in a very acessible and "noob-friendly" way.

I would be remiss to not give a lot of credit to my main collaberator when working with RStudio - My older sister. My sister is a UOttawa graduate in statistics and is currently working for StatsCanada (And absolutely *killing* it, by the way). She is very familiar with R and was a huge help in helping me format our data, especially into visualization plots. I had a great time working through RStudio with her, and feel like I benefited greatly from it. I felt increasingly literate in R after only a few minutes of her help. She helped me reformated my barplot (Attached to this repository) to make it more visually appealing, specifically renaming empty date entries, where they had previously been untitled. I also attached the barplot that she made with our data, which is obviously much more visually appealing, because who doesn't love some good sibling rivalry?

Stepping backwards a bit, however, my experience with RStudio also made me realize that there are limitations on the data we collect in the field. I wanted to add questions to the KoBo form that would allow for less 'restrictive' data collection, but in pratice, this ammounted to less usable and 'objective' data. For example, I thought that the question in regards to the condition of the monument were limiting, and proposed the addition of a question  that allowed the user to record specific information about the type of damage to the monument. This, however, was not as valuable when working with the data itself, as it was able to quantify that damage into a digital form elegantly.

## Rediscovering Enchantment and Storytelling

One aspect of the final week's 'Raising the Dead' project that really resonated with me was Dr. Graham's focus on *enchantment* in building. It was something I had felt myself exploring as I progressed through the module - Those moments when everything came together and an involuntary smile came through, despite me sitting in my dark room all by my lonesome. There was truly magic in using these digital tools to construct stories. In Colleen Morgan's words, that archaeological interpretations "has the immense potential to be true, to resonate with all the passion and fire of science fiction novels, movies, or comic books. I posit that science fictions allow the past and present to become permeable through the creation of a shared interstitial space." This really drew my engagement as a storyteller and worldbuilder myself, and thrust me into the *fantasy* of archaeology. Unfortunately, I ran into a number of roadblocks with both portions of the Raising the Dead project and was unable to truly experience it as much as I wanted to, but the pure concept of ressurecting the soul of long-dead individuals, such as the case with Rudolopho Lanciani, fascinated me to no end. I fully plan to tackle part two of the project in my freetime and have a little conversation with Rudolopho.
